## Chat-Bot-Skip-gram
The Chat Bot Skip-Gram aims to leverage word embeddings trained via the [skip-gram](https://github.com/KHAAdotPK/Skip-gram.git) model to eventually become a fully functional chatbot capable of understanding and responding to input. As of now, the bot is focused on computing cosine similarity between words to test the quality and accuracy of the embeddings generated by the [skip-gram](https://github.com/KHAAdotPK/Skip-gram.git) implementation and stress test the implementations of the related dependencies.

~~Read this article for [in-depth analysis on Skip-Gram word embeddings, focusing on training dynamics, loss function behavior, and the impact of optimal parameter tuning on cosine similarity](https://github.com/KHAAdotPK/Skip-gram/blob/main/usage/README.md).~~

**Commands**: Here is a list of supported commands and their descriptions **...**

**Basic Commands**

- `h -h help --help ? /?`
    - Displays the help screen.
- `v -v version --version /v`
    - Displays the version number.
- `verbose --verbose`
    - Verbose mode to control output verbosity.    
     
 **Vocabulary and Weights**
- `words --words`
    - Expects a list of words from the vocabulary.
- `w1 --w1`
    - Specifies the file containing trained input weights.
- `w2 --w2`
    - Specifies the file containing the vocabulary.
- `vocab --vocab`
    - Specifies the file containing the vocabulary.
- `showpairs --showpairs show_pairs showPairs`
    - Displays pairs of target/center words and their surrounding context words. The number of context words for each target word is determined by the macro SKIP_GRAM_CONTEXT_WINDOW_SIZE, which is a configurable hyperparameter. 

**Additional Flags**
- `average`
    - Acts as a flag to be used with the **W1** option or **w1** and **W2** options... 
        - When this flag is used on its own then it implies that program will further proceed using the contents of the **W1** matrix. 
        -  When `average` is used with `do` subcommand then program proceeds using the matrix which is outcome of the average operation performed on matrix **W1** and **W2**. The average operation is done by the program itself internally.

    - **Subcommands**
        - `do` 
            This command implies that the W1 and W2 matrices will be averaged, and the program will proceed with processing the resulting matrix. Optionally expects a numeric argument, which serves as a multiplier applied to the W2 matrix before averaging.

- `show --show show_pairs showPairs`
    -  Displays pairs of target/center words and their surrounding context words. The number of context words for each target word is determined by the macro SKIP_GRAM_EMBEDDING_VECTOR_SIZE, which is a configurable hyperparameter.

- `proper --proper`
    - To process the user inputs in the chatbot, this option ensures the correct usage of trained weights; W1 for input word embeddings and W2 for context words.

### Building the Language Model
This project is gradually evolving into a chatbot by building a language model (LM) using the trained Skip-gram embeddings. The approach focuses on incremental steps to achieve a fully functional conversational AI.

#### Build in Steps
Transitioning to a chatbot doesn't have to happen all at once. Focusing on small, incremental improvements. For example:

- **Step 1**: Use trained Skip-gram embeddings to suggest words or phrases.
- **Step 2**: Integrate a sequence-based model for simple predictions.
- **Step 3**: Expand to more complex dialogue flows.

This step-by-step progression ensures that each stage is functional and builds a strong foundation for the next level of complexity.

### License
This project is governed by a license, the details of which can be located in the accompanying file named 'LICENSE.' Please refer to this file for comprehensive information.
